% Unit 4
% 4.4 [Making Conversions]
% David Guenther

# Objective

Fully realize that you have the skills to make conversions

# Start

## Intro

You've been converting between well known unit systems, but what happens when we come across something that is a bit different. Suffice to say that the methods we use *are exactly the same*

The same thought processes you used before are going to be used now.

[Pop Quiz 4.4]

The most essential thing for all questions is to break it down into parts that you can understand. The journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step, and likewise, once you place your trust in Christ, you don't magically become the most mature Christian on the planet. There is a process of growing up that is required. And that growing up requires steps.

When you come across a hard problem that looks too huge, its like looking at all the decisions in your life that you will one day make, and trying to make them all at once. Big problems can be broken down into smaller problems, and those small problems can be solved one at a time.

So we know that our use of ratios and proportions are a very handy tool for figuring out questions, but let me tell you about some more practices to help your thinking.


1. Read the problem carefully (and pay attention to anything that isn't clear to you)
2. Re-read the problem (you need to be absolutely clear about what you are trying to do)
3. List what you do know at the top of the page (or wherever you like) - part of this involves becomming organized
4. Find necessary information begin solving the problem: What do you need to know that you don't already? (and find that information)
5. Solve one step at a time (and label your steps in a neat section)

[How to solve document]

Here is a sample on how to solve things. It is by no means perfect, and I am not expecting you to download this and print it out to use. It is a framework for your own benefit. This type of format is incredibly helpful when solving physics questions, and I think it will be too for math. However, if you can create a better format, I would be very interested in using that as well.


## Example 1

pg. 163

## Assignment

pg. 166: 3 - 7

# End

We start a new unit next. Any questions or things you want me to go over?
