% Unit 1.1
% 1.1 Proportional Reasoning
% David Guenther

# Objective

use ratios to solve new problems

# Defintions

**ratio**: two numbers that have the same units are compared to each other

**rate**: two numbers that that different unites compared to each other

**proportion**: a fraction that describes the equality between two ratios or rates.

# Start

## Intro

Ratios are an integral part of our world, and you probably already use them everyday!

## Driving

> Q: What does it mean to be going 100 km an hour? What does this represent.

> Q:What does going 30 km an hour in a school zone mean?

What we're really saying is this: for every hour (bottom) we have, we go 100 kilometers (top)

$$\frac{100 kilometers}{1 hour}$$

Since 1 hour =  60 minutes, we could simplify this further

$$\frac{100 kilometers}{60 minutes}$$

Can anyone tell me what $$\frac{100}{60}$$ simplifies to?

thats right: $$\frac{10}{6}$$

and this is how: $$\frac{\frac{100}{10}}{\frac{60}{10}}$$

>Q: is this exactly the same equation that we started out with? (why or why not?)

>Q: What does this simplified equation tell us?

>Q: how can we use this information when we want to find out how long it will take us to travel somewhere?

we could also write this as km 10:6 minutes (we're just rearranging)

We are comparing two things that normally can't work with each other.

Time and distance don't usually talk to each other. Think of ratios and rates as the interpreter, that little line between then, that allows them to talk to each other.

The big idea is this: we are rearranging things to make things equal. We use math to make equations equal to each other to find new things.

But we may have taken the long way around for all this, lets try another example

## Example

Boys to girls in the room.

Count boys and girls, make a ratio, and calculate how many boys we had if we had an increase of 15 girls.

## Example 2

Work as a team to solve activity 1.2 (pg. 16)

Team 1: Recipe 1
Team 2: Recipe 2

How many cups of concentrate are required to feed Harvest city, assuming that one person drinks 2 cups of water

## Assignment (27.3 minutes)

*From the Textbook pg. 21*

do as many until you feel you understand

**if you are having trouble, you are free to ask others for help, but not to socialize**

### Go over problems people encountered (at request)

# Project 1

So here's your first project:

Your mission, should you choose to accept it, is to find out how much money you need to spend to eat everything that you do.

Don't worry if you can't do this right now, I am going to provide tools necessary for you to do this task.

Step 1 due September 5: Find out everything eaten in one day, including the unit price of all products eaten, and an approximation of how much you ate of the product

Step 2 due September 12: Find any sales deals, and have all calculations done

Example with Garlic cloves

**Everything Due September 19**

# End activity

Puzzle it out game (pg. 22)
