% Workplace and Apprenticeship 10 Period 5
% Syllabus
% Mr. Guenther

# Goals

* Learn to love math and use it in real life
* Confidently pass the course

# Outline

Unit | Description
-----|-----
Unit 1 | Currency
Unit 2 | Income
Unit 3 | Length, Area, Volume
Unit 4 | Mass, Temperature, Volume
Unit 5 | Angles & Parallel Lines
Unit 6 | Similarity of Figures
Unit 7 | Trigonometry of Right Triangles

# Grades

Type | Weight
-----|-----
Quizs | 60%
Projects | 30%
Final Exam | 10%

While attendance and interaction in class are not marked, I can guarantee you that showing up to class and being attentive will result in a higher grade on your mark, as learning will be possible.

## Quiz

Every Friday will be a quiz, summarizing what has been previously learned. The quiz will be a maximum of 40 minutes each week, and will happen at the later part of the class.

* A maximum of 4 questions will be asked each week
* The quizzes will follow the textbook for assessment.
* Each question on the quiz will be worth 3 marks.

### Quiz Grade
Mark | Translation
-----|-----
0 |Nothing
1 |+ Right Equations
2 |+ Right Steps
3 |+ Right Answer

Questions on the quizzes will be sorted according to chapters. Similar questions will be asked multiple times in order for the student to show achievement. The worst 3 marks for each category will be dropped.

### Example

On my first quiz I got 1 out of 3 on the Pythagorean theorem, but did well on the other questions. The next quiz was the opposite, I did well on the Pythagorean theorem, but didn't do so well on the others. In this case, the lowest mark for each category will be dropped, giving me a decently high grade.

### Preparing for Quizzes

As you may have noticed by now, there are no assignments in this class. The only thing you will be marked on is your projects and your quizzes. However, if your grade in this class will greatly increase if you practice with assignments. At times I will give out questions to practice with, and then review them on the board. You are not obligated to do this, but if you refuse to work on them, your grades in this class will suffer.

Additionally, those whose grade is a **D**, assignments will be mandatory, and failure to turn in a completed assignment will result in a -1% off your final grade. Once you manage to raise your grade above a **D** all your penalties will be cleared.

If at the end of the semester I decide to review this policy in your favour, I reserve the right to do so.

## Projects

Projects are meant to be real life applications for using math. Each project will be in the form of a question

It is then your task to find the answer. Initially I will give you a lot of direction, but as the semester continues you will need to provide your own direction in order to complete these projects.

### Example
How many baseballs would fit in a baseball diamond?

Judging from your current income and expenses, how long before you save 1 million dollars?

### Grade

Mark | Translation
-----|-----
0 |Nothing is done
1 |+ Attempted
2 |+ Correct use of equations
3 |+ Shows work
4 |+ Solution
5 |+ Correct Solution with no errors
6 |+ Adds presentation
7 |+ Perfection (I can't find anything to fix)

### Due Dates

Projects will be due on the day I set for them. There is a grade of 0 given if the project is not turned in on this day, the reason being when you get into the workplace, there are deadlines, and you could lose your job if you fail to meet those guides.

That said, my purpose here is to prepare you for this task. I will provide a tentative deadline. Some companies actually do this to make sure the project is turned in on time. If you hand in your work ahead of the final deadline, at your request I can look over your project and recommend any changes before I actually grade it.

I will not do this if you turn in the assignment on the due date.

## Final Exam

Your final exam will include everything you have learned thus far, and will be at the end of the semester. I will provide a practice exam before this date.

# Behaviour

You are entering the adult stage of your life, and as such, I expect you to act like it. That means that during class times, I expect you to be on task. If you find a particular class or unit to be the very definition of boring, I still expect you to behave. I will strongly suggest that tuning out will reduce you grade, as you will not be learning. But in all cases you will at the very minimum remain quiet in your desk. Disrupting others from learning is not an option, and will result in disciplinary measures. Your utmost commitment is to learning in a community, and if your heart beats to that rhythm, I can safely say that most of disciplinary problems will disappear.

# Closing Remarks

It is my commitment to you to help you as you discover more about math. I cannot help you if you are not engaged in class. I need your cooperation to make this work. I need your commitment to work hard on your projects and quizzes.

## Food

Food is an essential part of your intellectual and physical growth, both of which are necessary for your spiritual growth. As such I have a recommended diet

* Fish (Omega 3 for enhancing memory)
* Eggs (vitamins A & B are good for memory)
* Caffeine before class for building new memories
* Cherries for falling asleep
* Bananas to calm and relax muscles
* Almonds to promote sleep and muscle relaxation
* Dark chocolate for stress relief
* Avocados for the immune system
* Garlic and Onions for the win (maybe ask your parents about this one :)

## Sleep

I recommend 8 hours a night. You need your brain functioning at full capacity as you study math.

## Relaxation

Your brain needs to work hard at school. That is why I recommend that you take at least 1 hour a night doing something that relaxes you.

Some things that relax me are as such:

* Video games
* Reading
* TV show
* Discovering new technology
* Taking pictures
* Building with Lego

Some things that I DON'T find relaxing:

* Surfing Facebook
* Doing homework

## End

This can be a great learning opportunity, but it will not be easy all the time. I need your cooperation to make this a fruitful semester.

Sincerely,

David Guenther
