% Syllabus
% 0.2 [Wisdom and Math]
% David Guenther

## Outcome

* Student understand that thinking in new ways is hard, but rewarding

## Start

* Volunteer to stand at the back of the class, and see how long to get to the front of the class.
* How could we make their time shorter? (by rearranging the desks to change the pathways)
* Your brain has pathways, and sometimes the pathways your brain uses are not as good as they can be. So we decide to learn something new, to think in a new way. This requires effort (just like moving a desk), but in the end there is a reward.
* You all have a brain, you are growing, and sometimes the way your brain has developed up to this point is not how it should be thinking
* we're humans, we live in sin, and we desire easy ways out of hard decisions
* Wisdom (Proverbs 3)

My child, do not forget my teaching,
but let your heart keep my commandments,
for they will provide a long and full life,
and they will add well-being to you.
Do not let truth and mercy leave you;
bind them around your neck,
write them on the tablet of your heart.
Then you will find favor and good understanding,
in the sight of God and people.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart,
and do not rely on your own understanding.
Acknowledge him in all your ways,
and he will make your paths straight.
Do not be wise in your own estimation;
fear the Lord and turn away from evil.
This will bring healing to your body,
and refreshment to your inner self.
Honor the Lord from your wealth
and from the first fruits of all your crops;
then your barns will be filled completely,
and your vats will overflow with new wine.
My child, do not despise discipline from the Lord,
and do not loathe his rebuke.
For the Lord disciplines those he loves,
just as a father disciplines the son in whom he delights.

Blessed is the one who finds wisdom,
and the one who obtains understanding.
For her benefit is more profitable than silver,
and her gain is better than gold.
She is more precious than rubies,
and none of the things you desire can compare with her.
Long life is in her right hand;
in her left hand are riches and honor.
Her ways are very pleasant,
and all her paths are peaceful.
She is like a tree of life to those who obtain her,
and everyone who grasps hold of her will be blessed.
**By wisdom the Lord laid the foundation of the earth; he established the heavens by understanding.**
By his knowledge the primordial sea was broken open,
and the clouds drip down dew.
My child, do not let them escape from your sight;
safeguard sound wisdom and discretion.
So they will give life to you,
and grace to adorn your neck.
Then you will walk on your way with security,
and you will not stumble.
When you lie down you will not be filled with fear;
when you lie down your sleep will be pleasant.
You will not be afraid of sudden disaster,
or when destruction overtakes the wicked;
for the Lord will be the source of your confidence,
and he will guard your foot from being caught in a trap.

Do not withhold good from those who need it,
when you have the ability to help.
Do not say to your neighbor, “Go! Return tomorrow
and I will give it,” when you have it with you at the time.
Do not plot evil against your neighbor
when he dwells by you unsuspectingly.
Do not accuse anyone without legitimate cause,
if he has not treated you wrongly.
Do not envy a violent man,
and do not choose to imitate any of his ways;
for one who goes astray is an abomination to the Lord,
but he reveals his intimate counsel to the upright.
The Lord’s curse is on the household of the wicked,
but he blesses the home of the righteous.
Although he is scornful to arrogant scoffers,
yet he shows favor to the humble.
The wise inherit honor,
but he holds fools up to public contempt. (NET)


* God created with world through wisdom, so if you intend on living on earth for our short period of time, I would suggest getting in touch with the one who created her. And there is no better way then to do that then by reading the Word of God. So I challenge you to read the Bible if you don't already this semester. It is the most important document that humans possess, and you would do well to pour your thoughts onto its pages, and let its truth filter your future. For the Word of God is powerful, and there is no subject that is as important as that.
* That said, we are still going to learn math here!
* Math is hard decisions, hard thinking, hard rationalizations
* But Math teaches us how to think
* teaches us how to see the world differently
* Christ saw the world differently, and because of His sacrifice, changed the world.
* I believe God has given us minds, and we are the stewards of those minds
* let us begin a semester of changing minds
* go into syllabus
