% Unit 2
% 2.1 Properties of Light
% David Guenther

# Objective

**OP8.1** Identify and describe, through experimentation, sources and properties of visible light including: rectilinear propagation, reflection, refraction.

# Procedures

* Attendance

# Light Travelling

## Demonstration 1

### Predict

If I shine light, how do you think it will shine?

### Observe

Light travels in a straight line

### Explain

Light travels in a straight line

Yes, it does appear that light travels in a straight line.

## Scientific Method

1. How does light travel?
2. What do we observe from this light source?
3. Hypothesis: it is part of lights nature to travel in a straight line
4. Does this work if I move around the classroom?
5. It appears that light travels in a straight line!
6. Hey! Light travels in a straight line!
7. Can you test this for me? (give light to student)

## Definitions

* **Shadow**: whenever light hits something it can't pass through, its called a shadow
* **umbra**: full black shadow (from latin *shade*)
* **penumbra**: partial black shadow (from latin *partial shade*)
* Definitions on pg. 93

(use examples to illustrate these definitions)

## Questions for Understanding
 pg. 95  - Think Pair Share

# Illuminance

I've got another question: This time we'll use just the scientific method

1. How far does light travel?
2. What do we observe from this light source?
3. Hypothesis: Light gets weaker the farther out it goes
4. Does this work if I shine in this way, or that way? (use students as indicators of brightness)
5. It appears that light get weaker as it goes farther
6. Hey! Light gets weaker (sharing)
7. Can you test this for me? (give light to student)

## Definitions

* pg. 96

Light travels through the air somewhat like baseballs do, except these baseballs travel in straight lines and don't have any mass (which means they don't fall to the earth like an actual baseball would). But if there are things in the way, like a door, or a even a window, the light will have a harder time travelling. It will have to go through the thing if it wants to keep going. That is why we have shadows, and also why dirty windows don't let too much light through.

In space, there isn't much of anything, so we can see clearly the stars far away. But its hard to see stars here on earth, because of the clouds and atmosphere that the light has to go through. Light from the city also bounces up towards the sky, and makes it much harder to see any stars. Thats the reason governments spend millions of dollars to build satellites which take pictures as they orbit the earth.

This is also why when you go out into the country, far away from all the city lights, the stars look much clearer.

As light spreads out, it has less of itself to cover area, so it appears to get weaker (blowing up ballon example)

# Work

Pg. 98: 1-6

# Extra work

pg. 98 Research Activity

# Home Work

* Use of light and optics in the work force




