% Science 8
% 2.2.0 Reflection
% David Guenther

# Objective

**OP8.2** Explore properties and applications of optics-related technologies, including concave and convex mirrors and lenses

# Procedures:

* Attendance

# Light Travelling

## Demonstration 1

### Predict

If I shine a light straight onto a mirror, where will it come out? (take about 5 minutes for students to place a sticky note on the wall where they think it will emerge

### Observe

The angle that the light goes in is the same angle that it goes out

### Explain

The law of reflection states that the angle that the light goes in (called the angle of incidence), and the angle the light goes out (called the angle of reflection), is the same.

* Light Explanation and Definitions

## Definitions

1. **Normal**: Perpendiculr to the mirror
2. **Incident Ray**: The ray coming in
3. **Angle of Incidence**: The angle created between the normal and the ray coming in
4. **Angle of Reflection**: The angle created between the normal and the ray leaving
5. **Law of Reflection**: the angle of reflection and the angle of incidence are the same.
6. **Specular reflectoin**: Reflection that happens on smooth surfaces (the light stays together)
7. **Diffuse Reflection**: refleciton that happens on rough surfaces (the light scatters)

## Work

pg. 105: 1 - 6 (think, pair, share)

# Curved Mirrors

## Demonstration 2



8. **Centre of Curvature**: If you made the curved mirror all the way around, this would be the centre.
9. **Principal Focus**: The point at which all the rays converge
10. **Convex Mirror**: curved outward mirror
11. **Concave Mirror**: curved inward mirror
12. **Virtual Image**: Where light appears to converge (but actually doesn't)
13. **Real Images**: Where light actually converges

# Work

* pg. 110: 1 - 5
