% Science 8
% 2.5.0 Lenses
% David Guenther

# Objective

**OP8.3** Compare the nature and properties of human vision with optical devices and vision in other living organisms. [CP, SI]

# Procedures:

* Attendance

# World of Colour

## Demonstration

* Activity on pg. 137 - make a list...
* Do we have a prism?


1. Rainbow: is created as light passing through the raindrops is refracted into many different wavelenghts of light (colours)
2. Visable Light Specturm: The colours of a rainbow, all colours can be created from these (ROY G BIV)

* Pg. 141: 1 - 5


# Seeing it

Demonstration: Mixing colours on my computer or in real life with paint

3. Additional Model of Colour: Using Red, Green, and Blue to create other colours.\

http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_nDhgjS-2T4U/SqxoaiqNBdI/AAAAAAAAAFE/Kh5Vg0iw4Kc/s1600-h/m+ff-706360.jpg

4. Primary colours of light: red, green, blue
5. Secondary colours of light: produced when you mix pairs of primary colours together
6. Cones: cells in your eye that picks up light
7. Colour blindness: the inability to see separate similar colours

* Pg. 144 activity: help students to **predict**, **observe**, and then **explain** what is happening

# What Colour is it?

## Demonstration

Materials:
* Light filters from 

### Predict 

What happens when I combine these colours?

### Observe

The mixing of light colours is different from the mixing of physical colours

[http://www.omsi.edu/tech/colormix.php]

### Explain

Subtraction model

8. Subtraction model of colour: Primary colours are absorbed or taken away from an object when you look at it

* pg. 147: 1- 4


# Work

* pg. 149: 1 - 6

# End

pg. 148: Traditional Dyes
