% Science 8
% 2.6.0 Electromagnetic Spectrum
% David Guenther

# Objective

**OP8.4** Evaluate the impact of electromagnetic radiation-based technologies on self and community. [CP, DM, SI]

# Procedures:

* Attendance

# Wave Model

## Demonstration 1

Review: top of pg. 151

### Predict:

Does your remote make light?

### Observe:

You can't see it with your own eye, but you can with another camera

### Explain:

Not all the light that exists is visable to you. In fact, light is part of the electromagnetic spectrum, and that covers many things, like radiation, X rays, and FM radio. 
## Demonstration 2

### Predict:

What happens if I microwave marshmellows in the microwave?

### Observe:

There is a pattern that imerges (some brown spots)

### Explain:

There is a wave pattern going on (the hot spots are called the nodes). The different colours you see come from different wavelengths of light: pg. 152 for explanation.

## Definitions

1. Invisable Spectrum: The electromagnetic waves we cannot see
2. electromagnetic radiation: radiant energy
3. electromagnetic spectrum: all electromagnetic waves (light, x rays, radio)
4. Wave model of light: light behaves light a wave
5. Wavelength: the distance between the wave repeating itself

## Practice:
* Pg. 153: 1 - 3

# The Unseen

## Demonstration

### Predict:

What happens when I shine a incadescent bulb on someone while they are blindfolded? Can they tell when its on or off?

### Observe:

The radiation produced from the bulb makes the skin warm, even if you can't see it

### Explain:

Light is part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Radiation is part of that spectrum. Higher frequency waves are more harmful to humans. See diagram on pg. 154 and 155

## Definitions

6. Rectilinear Propagation: movement of waves in a straight line

## Practice

* pg. 159: 1 - 5

# Light Origins

(demonstration as supplied with kit to go along with definitions). Explain definitions as you do them.

## Definitions

7. Bioluminescence: chemical reaction on different creatures to produce light
8. Chemiluminescence: chemical reaction without life.
9. Phosphorescence: a material that absorbes light, and then releases it later.
10. Electroluminescence: light produced from electricity
11. Light Emitting diode: a diode that lights up when electricity passes through it
12. Organic LIght Emitting Diodes: the diode is an organic compound
13. Incadescent light bulb: electricity goes through a thin piece of wire, that lights up
14. Compact flourescent lamps: as electricity passes through argon gas, it lights up. It is coated with a florescent material to absorb the UV rays to product visable light.

## Research

If you were to light up your house, what kind of light would you use?

## Practice

* pg. 167: 1- 3

# Work

* pg. 167: 1 - 5

# Homework

Pg. 157 - Line Master provided
Make a tree diagram for light sources - Line Master Provided

# End

pg. 168: Canadian Light Source
