% Unit 3
% 3.0 Introduction
% David Guenther

# Big Idea

We will investigate Light, and many properties associated with it.

# Investigate

## Where

> What do you consider to be true?
> How do you know?

I think that blue is the most beautiful colour? Is this true for all people?

So you can know things because of your own **personal experience**

But sometimes just because I experience something doesn't make it true.

The educational system tells us how to spell words, like "cat" or "dog". You can't know by personal experience that these things are supposed to be spelt these ways. Maybe the actual spelling of cat is "kat". This has been told you many times, and all of society tells us this is the right way to spell cat. In fact, this is the current right way to spell cat today. In fact, in old english, a male cat was referred to as "catt" and a female cat was "catte". So we know things because of what others have told us, but others get things wrong all the time.

Can we trust our senses? To a certain extent I believe we can. I can count how many students are in this classroom, and while I may get it right often enough, there is a possibility I'll get it wrong.

http://floorsix.blogspot.ca/

For anything you can think of, there is a possibility you might have got it wrong. Even in collecting data, but especially when it comes to your conclusions.

If I go outside and I get wet from water from above, I may think that its raining. But maybe something else happened. It is true from on observational standpoint that I got wet. But not true that it would be raining. That is one likely conclusion, but perhaps someone was throwing water from the roof. That is a possibility, if just a small one.

There is both **Historial** and **Observational** evidence

I observe I am wet, but I conclude the history is such that it was raining. Now if I looked up at the sky I could perhaps more accurately conclude that it was raining, and were I to be away from any building I could observationaly conclude that no one was throwing water on me, and that it had to be the rain.

When you study evolution, people will tell you that evolution has happened. Now I personally find that hard to believe because I have never seen evolution happen. People look at observational evidence, (namely that there are intelligent human beings), and because they first believe there is no God, they assume that people had to evolve. They take their Observational evidence and create historical evidence.

However, I believe in a God, and I observe that the more time goes on, the more messed up things become. Things don't get better, they get worse! And so my observational evidence points not to evolution, but to a God.

Furthermore, observational evidence can also be historical. What is a book you can think of that has been around a really long time?

The Bible contains observational evidence that Jesus lived and died on this earth, and that He was the Son of God. And that truth changes the way we look at the universe.

But how do we begin to think through things we can see here an now, in order to create observational experience?


## How

1. What do you want to find out?
2. Observe and come up with data
3. Come up with an initial explanation (hypothesis)
4. See if your hypothesis is right by trying it out in other situations (but not changing anything)
5. Analyze and interpret your new findings
6. Tell others
7. Others retest and give their findings

This is the general gist of the scientific method, and is one tool you don't want to leave behind in science class. It is useful for investigating anything and everything. The world is full of mysteries, and it is given to us, humans, to find them out (Proverbs 25:2).

So we search and we discover new things: not only in science, but in history, art, english, math. Every subject area has been influened by the desire to explore. Everything you see today is because someone, somewhere explored and invented.

Example activity first: I want to know what happens when I bounce black balls on the floor.

Station Activity based on pg. 90-91

[Handout given]

# End

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eA86dYxrg4Q
