% 3.1 Viscosity
% David Guenther

# Objective

**FD8.1** Investigate and represent the density of solids, liquids, and gases based on the particle theory of matter. [SI, TPS]

# Procedures

* Attendance

# Activity

* handout
(will need different stations, with a different liquid at each station)

# Viscosity

## Demonstration 1

### Predict

(resources from kit)

### Observe

### Explain

## Lecture

* Difference between solids/ liquids / gas
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6XyJLu_Mfg (Pitch Drop)
* Dangerous Chemicals
* 

## Definitions


* **Fluid**: a form of matter that takes the shape of its container.
* **Particle Theory of Matter**: Describes a model, the different states, and change of matter.
* **Viscosity**: A fluids resistance to change
* **Bubble Test**: Time taken for a bubble to go through a tube of liquid.
* **Ramp Test**: Time taken for a liquid to flow down a ramp.

(use examples to illustrate these definitions)

## Questions for Understanding
pg. 188: 1 - 4

## End

pg. 189: Careers and Profiles

# Temperature and Viscosity

## Demonstration 2

### Predict

What happens if I microwave honey? (what changes about it?)

### Observe

The honey flows faster (less viscosity)

### Explain

More temperature means the individual molecules are moving faster and faster. They bumb into each other more often, and as you may well know, its much easier to move a roomful of people who are excited about life, as opposed to a room full of people who like to stay seated.

## Lecture



## Questions for Understanding
pg. 192: 2 - 5

# Work

Pg. 193: 1 - 6

# Home Work

* Use of light and optics in the work force




