% 3.2 Density
% David Guenther

# Objective

**FD8.1** Investigate and represent the density of solids, liquids, and gases based on the particle theory of matter. [SI, TPS]
**FD8.3** Investigate and describe physical properties of fluids (liquids and gases), including viscosity and compressibility. [SI]

# Procedures

* Attendance

# Weight, Mass, and Volume

## Demonstration 1

[http://phet.colorado.edu/sims/density-and-buoyancy/density_en.html]

For each material: Predict, Observe, and form a hypothesis (handout)

## Definitions

* **Density**: How condensed a material is (how much there is for a unit of space)
* **Weight**: The force of gravity on the object
* **Mass**: The amount of matter present
* **Volume**: The area it takes up in 3 Dimensions.

Mass and Volume in Space:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lohpORgOKVU]

(use examples to illustrate these definitions)

## Questions for Understanding
pg. 195: 1 - 2

# Water and Fluids

## Demonstration 2

### Predict

What happens when I mix oil and water together? What happens if I shake the container?

### Observe

The water and oil separate

### Explain

Water and oil have different density. The more dense one goes to the bottom, while the less dense one rises to the top. Oil and Water on a molecular level don't have places where they can bond together, so they don't mix. (unlike other things in water)

## Lecture

* Volume and mass of water (explain infobit on pg. 196)
* How would you clean up an oil spill?

## Work

* How does SCAT work?
* pg. 198: Questions on Oil Tankers (6 total)
* pg. 199: #3

# Finding the Density

* Go over formula and chart on pg. 202: $$Density = \frac{mass}{volume}$$
* Example: what is my density if I know that a 300 mL of material has a mass of 500g?

## Work

pg. 202: 1 - 4

# Experimenting

## Story

* read pg. 204 (used scale to determine same mass)
* Explanation on his discovery

## Definitions

* **Displacement Method**: findout out how much volume something has by how much water it displaces.

## Demonstration

### Predict

How much water will this shape (rectangular prism) displace? (take time to examine it and make a prediction)

### Observe

The water displaced is how much (weight it) - should be similar to the calculation of the volume

### Explain

This method is the Displacement method, and can be used to find the volumes of things that are not easy to calculate using math

## Work

pg. 209: 2-3

# Particle Theory

## Demonstration

### Predict

What happens if I put a baloon in a microwave?

### Observe

The balloon expands

### Explain

The density of the air inside the baloon changes as the temperature expands. The partiples vibrate more, bouncing around and expanding. They become less dense. Similarily, if we were to heat ice to water, and then to steam, each progression would be a material that is less dense.

## Questions

pg. 212: 1 - 5: Think - Pair - Share (assign different groups to do different questions)


# Homework

Pg. 213: 1 - 8
