% 3.3 Floating
% David Guenther

# Objective

**FD8.2** Examine the effects of forces in and on objects in fluids, including the buoyant force. [CP,SI,TPS]

# Procedures

* Attendance

# Buoyancy

## Demonstration 1

### Predict

Will the object sink or float?

### Observe

Depending on the object

### Explain

We've talked about density, but do you know why something sinks or floats? There are forces involved here. There is the force of gravity that is trying to pull things toward it, but also the force of buoyancy. If an object is less dense then water, the water tries to push it up. If these two forces are the same, the object doesn't go anywhere, but if they are not equal, like two strong people in a tug of war, one wins, and the object goes their way.

## Definitions

* **Force**: A push or pull exerted that tends to make an object move. A continuos force always results in acceleration without obstruction.
* **Floating**: when the upward force is greater then the downward force
* **Balanced Forces**: If the object is not moving or changing sped, the forces are balanced
* **Gravitational Force**: The force of Gravity that pulls something toward the earth
* **Buoyant Force**: The force that pushes the object up
* **newton**: The unit of measurement for forces
* **Personal Floatation Device**: A vest that keeps you on top of the water. (explain why they work)

# Displacement

## Demonstration

### Predict

How much will an object weight if I put it into different liquids. Use a force measurement device, and put a weight into water, oil, and something thicker like molasses. 

### Observe

The force that the object exerts changes based on the liquid. Have students brainstorm why.

### Explain

The volume displaced is the same for all threee. But because there are different densities, the mass displaced is not the same. As mass is used to calculate force, the buoyancy force changes.

## Definitions

* **Archimedes' principle**: The buoyancy force is the same as the force of the fluid moved by the object
* **Swim bladder**: a fish increases or descreases the amount of air in this organ, making the fish displace more water or less, thus causing it to rise or fall.
* **ballast tanks**: Swim bladder's for submarines

## Work

pg. 222: 1 - 3 (think, pair, share)

# Boats

* Self reading: students should take time to read 3.3 in the textbook (+pg. 227)
* Students do questions 1 and 2 on pg. 226

# Floating

## Demontration

### Predict

I have put an egg in water. It sinks. How could I make it float? I am going to add salt, what do you think the egg will do?

### Observe

The egg rises

### Explain

The density in the water has been changed. As there is more mass being displaced, it pushes the object towards the surface

## Definitions

* **Plimsoll Line**: a line painted on ships so that they can know how much they can weigh them down before a danger of sinking
* **Contact force**: a force that happens when two things are touching (like the buoyancy force)
* **Non Contact Force**: a force that happens without touching (like gravity)

## Work

pg. 231: 1 - 5

# HW

pg. 234: 1 - 8

# End

pg. 235: Ask an Expert


