% 3.3 Floating
% David Guenther

# Objective

**FD8.4** Identify and interpret the scientific principles underlying the functioning of natural and constructed fluid systems. [CP, SI]

# Procedures

* Attendance

# Pressure

## Demonstration 1

### Predict

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vo2iE94iAoA]

Stop at 50 seconds. What do you think is going to happen next?

### Observe

View rest of video

### Explain

Pressure is force over some area. There was a lot of force on the ballon, but it was over a large amount of nails, so it didn't pop. Similarily, someone wearing high heels exerts more force per area then an elephant does (think about how big an elephants foot is, and how big a womans foot is) [can do the calculation if students feel up to it]

## Definitions

* **Hydralic Device**: A pump that moves water
* **Pneumatic Device**: A pump that moves air
* **Pressure**: force per unit area (two things, the force being applied (N), and the area it is applied to (meters squared) [draw equation]
	* How would this work with snow shoes?

# Temperature, Volume, and Pressure

## Demonstration 2

### Predict

* Match
* Bottle
* Hard boiled egg without shell

Light a match inside the bottle, and place the egg so that it covers the opening.

Question: What do you think will happen?

### Observe

The egg is sucked into the bottle

### Explain

The air inside the bottle expands when its hotter, and because there is still an opening, it escapes. It has become less dense. The pressure wants to stay the same as the air outside the bottle. But when the match goes out, and the top of the bottle is sealed with the egg, something else happens. There is now colder air inside the bottle, but this is the same air that was warm before. No new air has come back in. So it becmes more dense (the molecules are not bouncing around as much). When this happens, there is a pressure difference between the outside air and the air inside the bottle. The outside air wants to get in, because there is lower pressure inside, and air always flows to a place where it has more room. Its like if you had a room full of ballons, and then you opened the door. The ballons would want to get out. Likewise the air on the inside wants more air to have the same pressure as before, so it pulls, and pulls, eventually pulling the egg in with it.

## Work

pg. 242: 1 - 4 (think, pair, share)

# Compression

## Demonstration 3

### Predict

When I squeeze a bottle and twist it, what happens to the cap? (first try with water inside, and then empty the bottle)

### Observe

The cap shoots off

### Explain

We are compressing the air inside of the bottle. When we do that the pressure increases. Air is really easy to compress, but solids and liquids are really hard to compress (because there is less open space to shove the atoms into). The built up pressure shoots the cap off.

## Definitions

* **Compression**: What an object is under when a force is exerted on it. (what happens to the pressure inside something like this?)
* **Compressibility**: the object can become compressed (become smaller)
* **Incompressible**: unable to be compressed easily.

## Work

pg. 244: 1 - 3 (think - pair - share)

# Hydrolic and Pneumatic systems

## Demonstration

 - resources from kit?

Suringe with and without water

## Definitions

* **Pascal's Law**: When pressure is put on a liqued, all that pressure is equally spread out over it.
* **Hydraulic systems**: A system that uses Pascals law.
* **Hydraulic Fluid**: The liquid that such a system uses.
* **Input Device**: What you apply force to
* **Output Device**: What resulting force is given
* **Mechanical Advantage**: When the output is greater then the input force.
* **pump**: a machine that displaces liquid
* **Closed Hydrolic System**: A system that doesn't lose liquid
* **Open Hydrolic System**: the liquid can leave (great for transporting liquid)

Q: What time of system is the circulatory system?
Q: Is it open or closed?
Q: What is an example of the Pneumatic System? (air bags, lungs)

## Work

pg. 252: 1 - 4
pg. 254: 1 - 3

# HW

pg. 257: 1 - 5

# End

pg. 235: Ask an Expert


